# Inspirations

- Front Office Football & Bowl Bound: The College Years
- Football Manager X
- Out of the Park Baseball X
- TEW: Total Extreme Wresting
- Crusader Kings 3

---

**Front Office Football & Bowl Bound, The College Years**:

---

```This is the closest existing attempt that I'm aware of, that is similar to what I want to create in relation to the subject and general ideas about what should be included in the game. The are features I would love to be added to those games and there are feature included in those games that I don't care much about.```

Similarities:

- Focus on the American sport Football.
- Simulates the responsibilites of being the general manager, coach, front office, god position for a team or league.
- Major focus on statistics. Think lots of tables in the UI, lots of rows of data. Studying data, making educated guesses based on probabilites will be the 'game loop' with the user making decisions based on their role during different periods of the season. Like the draft, free agency, training camp, preseason, season.

Differences:

- Focus on constructing a playbook. While this is the most important mechanic for the user affecting the outcome of the game it was also very time consuming in both of FOF and BB: TCY , I would like to develop a simpler solution while still relying on it as a very impactful gameplay mechanic.
- I want to merge the FOF and BB: TCY so that you can aquire a position at either level, college or pros. Also the universe will consist of more than a single pro leage obviously. International Leagues and lesser leagues like arena league with slightly different rules will be included.

---

**Football Manager X**

---

Similarities:

- I prefer the UI in FM to any of the other listed games. It is sometimes unresponsive but FM is a massive game so is somewhat understandable.
- European soccer users the concept of tiered leagues, that I would like to replicate.

Differences:

- Obviously the subject of the game is European football and not American Football.
- The architecture will be designed with future multiplayer support in mind from the beginning, ensuring it is a core part of the game's structure rather than a post-launch addition.
- I won't have any visual representation of a games happening, at least not in 3d. I will add a 2d representation when I feel the time is right.

---

**Out of the Park Baseball X**

---

Similarities:

- OOTP has an excellent system to modify individual league simulation parameter weights, for any league in the universe. This is fantastic, because some league's could use a different set of rules that impact the statistics produced. Some leagues might get the reputation as a high/low scoring league, have exceptionally high/low rushing/passing yards and many other parameters to set that affect the simulation engine.

Differences:

- Obviously the subject of the game is professional wrestling and not American Football.
- OOTP doesn't contain many role playing elements. You as a character should will be get a character score. The score will have different components professional and non-professional. So this could be considered the official measurement of success in the game. During the game you will make choices that could provide a benifit to your professional scores but penalizes your non-professional endeavors and vice versa. There will also be a role playing elements with fans, media, family members or just random luck that could affect these scores. There will also be more role playing elements in regards to your assessts, or football teams ( you could own or manage multiple teams but must manage your time ). Teams will need to run like a business setting prices and balanceing budgets, deciding promotions, sponserships, etc.

---

**TEW: Total Extreme Wresting**

---

Similarities:

- This games revolves around a wrestling universe and requires the user to make fictional narratives for their characters. My game will rely heavily on this narrative building to aid immersion. Stories, events and interactions like with reporters, fans, family, players, staff, as well as team art and player and game images will be generated by a large language model.

Differences:

- Obviously the subject of the game is Baseball and not American Football.
- This game is far more free form than what I am trying to build that main object is to aid the player in building a 'story'. That is also what I am trying to accomplish but with more structure and strategic decision making. In TEW you are truly 'god' determing the outcome of matches, the only real 'game' in TEW is trying to draw more rating's for your wrestling association. I want to do that but not give the player the ability to decide outcomes of matches as well as all the other elements I mentioned.

---

Crusader Kings 3

---

Similarities:

- Role-playing game first.
- Many different strategies could be employed to win.
- The game isn't obsessed with declaring a winner or loser. The game is best pleyed whtn the user sets a goal for himself that isn't strictly considered victory.

Differences:

- Obviously subject matter. CK3 is a simulation about managing a family dynasty during medieval times. While the historical setting is vastly different, the underlying mechanics of character-driven storytelling and generational play are core inspirations for the role-playing elements of this game.
